--- Page 1 ---
 
 
Copyright © This concept note is a copyright of KKR Financial Advisors Pvt. Ltd. Any form of reproduction, dissemination, copying, disclosure, 
modification, distribution & or publication of this material is strictly prohibited, without written permission of the company. 
 
 
 
 
 
Concept Note 
on  
“Towards Socio-Economic Empowerment of small and marginal 
Farmers of Pune district through Sustainable Agriculture 
Practices” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Submitted by: 
KKR Financial Advisors Private Limited 
 
A/C30,Third Floor, Industrial Estate, Phase – III, Pune –  411001 
 

--- Page 2 ---
 
 
Copyright © This concept note is a copyright of KKR Financial Advisors Pvt. Ltd. Any form of reproduction, dissemination, copying, disclosure, 
modification, distribution & or publication of this material is strictly prohibited, without written permission of the company. 
 
1. Executive Summary 
Particulars 
Description 
Project Goal 
The overarching goal of the project is to develop climate adaptive and resilient 
livelihood system through a package of sustainable agricultural practices, 
technological interventions  
Geography 
The project would be implemented in selected villages of Pune district of 
Maharashtra 
Project Objectives 
 To ensure secure livelihoods and prosperity of 500 farmers through 
inclusive, 
efficient, 
resilient, 
climate 
smart 
and 
scientifically 
recommended agricultural practices that would not only ensure their 
food and nutritional security but at the same time safeguard the 
environment as well 
 To prevent distress migration from rural to urban areas,  due to lack of 
remunerative employment opportunities for a decent standard of living 
 To reduce the drudgery, facilitate timeliness in farm operations and 
efficient use of inputs through farm mechanization 
 To establish and nurture village level community-based institutions for 
sustaining the project gains in the post project period period 
Target Beneficiaries 
The target beneficiaries are 500 small and marginal farmers from the selected 
villages 
Project Duration 
24 Months 
Project Budget 
Rs. 85 Lakhs 
2. Rationale of the Project 
Climate change remains the biggest threat to Indian agricultural system as it can wreak havoc on the lives 
and livelihoods of millions of farmers in the country. The vagaries of climate can disrupt food availability, 
reduce access to food, and affect nutritional aspects of food. The state of Maharashtra is highly acclaimed 
for its development model which has exhibited phenomenal growth in social, economic and environmental 
indicators. However, this remarkable achievement is marred by the fact that the state’s agricultural 
performance is declining at an alarming rate especially during the last few decades.  
The agriculture sector of the state is plagued with various challenges like poor yield, small and fragmented 
landholdings, traditional methods of agriculture and harvest and post-harvest losses. Moreover, the 
agriculture is mainly rainfed and owing to semi-arid region and erratic rainfall, the productivity of the crops 
is much lower than its actual potential.  
 
Some of the major agricultural issues in Pune district of Maharashtra are enumerated as below: 

--- Page 3 ---
 
 
Copyright © This concept note is a copyright of KKR Financial Advisors Pvt. Ltd. Any form of reproduction, dissemination, copying, disclosure, 
modification, distribution & or publication of this material is strictly prohibited, without written permission of the company. 
 
Lack of knowledge on modern methods of cultivation: Farmers are primarily practicing traditional 
methods of agriculture and hence agriculture is characterized by a low level of quality inputs, lack of 
climate-smart agricultural practices, and poor management practices. 
 
Small and Marginal Farmers: In Maharashtra, more than 78.4%1 of the farmers belong to the 
category of small and marginal farmers. Climate change pose a significant threat to small and marginal 
farmers as they depend on rain-fed agriculture, cultivate marginal areas, and lack access to technical or 
financial support that could help them invest in more climate-resilient agriculture. 
 
Acute water shortage: The region is historically known as drought prone region, however the 
frequency and intensity of droughts have increased over the past decades. The region is reeling under 
acute water crisis due to repeated failures of monsoon and climate change 
 
Distress migration: Migration is predominant in the district especially after the harvesting of Kharif 
crops. Due to scarcity of water, farmers don’t take crops during rabi season and hence migrate to other 
cities searching for remunerative livelihood opportunities. 
 
3.Proposed project components 
“The future of India lies in its villages”. This famous statement by Mahatma Gandhi stands true even when 
the world is hurrying towards industrialization and urbanization. Indian villages are brimming with 
untapped potential which needs to be harnessed by building an ecosystem of sustainable rural livelihoods. 
The project focuses on building resilience of small and marginal farmers through climate resilient 
agricultural practices. 
Sustainable Agriculture Practices 
The Sustainable agriculture can be defined as ecologically friendly farming practices that are economically 
viable, environmentally sound, and protect human health. It enables society to meet their food and textile 
needs without compromising the needs of future generations. Hence, Climate Resilient Agriculture (CRA) 
practices will be undertaken for sustainable agricultural development and ensuring food security while 
mitigating the negative impacts of climatic changes on agricultural productivity.  CRA practices will be 
promoted to achieve higher output, yield, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This will be achieved by 
the adoption of the following steps/ processes: 
1) Soil Testing: 
Indiscriminate usage of chemical fertilizers not only hampers the productivity of crops but also leads to 
deterioration of soil structure, wastage of nutrients, destruction of soil micro-organisms, scorching of plants 
in extreme cases and an unnecessary escalation in cost of cultivation. Judicious use of fertilizers based on 
soil testing will be promoted both for maintaining soil productivity and reducing the input cost of crop 
cultivation. 
Activity Description: 
                                                 
1 https://www.adb.org/sites/default/files/linked-documents/53264-001-ssa-01.pdf 

--- Page 4 ---
 
 
Copyright © This concept note is a copyright of KKR Financial Advisors Pvt. Ltd. Any form of reproduction, dissemination, copying, disclosure, 
modification, distribution & or publication of this material is strictly prohibited, without written permission of the company. 
Soil testing will be carried out with an envisaged objective of educating farmers about soil productivity and 
fertility. Soil samples from the farmer’s field shall be collected and sent to one of the renowned 
laboratories for the analysis of macro and micro nutrients. Soil test shall help in identifying the crop based 
nutritional requirement. Farmers would subsequently then apply the recommended doses of nutrients as 
per the information indicated in the soil health card and realize the benefit of crop productivity. 
Expected Outcome: 
 Awareness on judicious use of fertilizers for maintaining soil health 
 Improvement in crop production and productivity 
 Reduction in cost of cultivation 
 
2) Adoption of organic methods: 
The presence of adequate organic material in the soil in the form of humus is very important for improving 
the fertility of soil and uptake of nutrients. Farm compost is an organic fertilizer that can be made on the 
farm from crop residues or animal manures at a very nominal cost. This is a low-cost yet effective method 
for improving the productivity of crops. In addition to farm compost, other organic practices like bio-
fertilizers, green manure, crop rotation, mulching etc will also be introduced. This will not only reduce the 
cultivation cost but would also repair, conserve and enhance the ecological balance.  
 
Activity Description: 
Demonstrations on organic methods will be given to the farmers. 
Expected Outcome: 
 Significant improvement in soil health 
 Reduction in the use of chemical insecticides and fertilizers through the adoption of effective eco-
friendly practices. 
 Reduction in cost of cultivation 
 
3) Adoption of System of Rice Intensification: 
The System of rice Intensification(SRI) is a climate smart farming methodology which aims to increase the 
productivity of rice by changing the management of soil, plants, nutrients and water. SRI is a low-water, 
labour intensive method of rice cultivation which promote less reliance on artificial fertilizers, pesticides, 
herbicides, and other agrochemicals while reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases. 
Activity Description:  
System of rice Intensification would be promoted for enhancing the productivity of paddy while improving 
soil health and fertility. 
 
Expected Outcome 
 Enhance production of rice and income of farmers 
 Strengthens the resilience of crops to climate change 
 
4) Crop Diversification 

--- Page 5 ---
 
 
Copyright © This concept note is a copyright of KKR Financial Advisors Pvt. Ltd. Any form of reproduction, dissemination, copying, disclosure, 
modification, distribution & or publication of this material is strictly prohibited, without written permission of the company. 
Indian agriculture has taken giant strides in the last few decades where it has transitioned from traditional 
cropping system to high value cultivation of crops. Indian economy too has witnessed shifting of 
consumption pattern from traditional cereals to high value agricultural commodities. Hence, it is proposed 
to diversify the sources of income of farmers through cultivation of staples, vegetables and cash crops on 
small plot during khariff and rabi season. Also, dedicated efforts will be taken to promote millet cultivation 
as they are known to provide food and nutritional security to the millions of households in Indis. 
Depending upon the localized agroclimatic conditions, suitable crops will be identified and support would 
given to farmers in the form of improved seeds, fertilizers and technical expertise. 
 
Expected Outcomes 
 Crop diversification to develop a portfolio of income sources  
 Food and Nutritional security 
 
5) Integrated Crop Management: 
Continuous use of suboptimal doses of nutrients in the intensive cropping system has led to severe 
depletion of nutrient reserves in the soil, causing multiple nutrient deficiencies, deterioration in soil 
physical properties and biological activity, water, and ecosystem, thereby decline in crop productivity. 
Sustainable crop rotation, along with use of organic manures,  crop residues, bio-fertilizer, and fertilizers in 
an integrated manner helps to restore and sustain soil fertility and crop productivity. It also helps to check 
the emerging deficiency of micro-nutrients other than NPK (Nitrogen, Phosphorus and Potassium). 
Integrated Pest Management is an eco-friendly approach that encompasses cultural, mechanical, and 
biological, and need-based chemical control measures that help to reduce input cost for crop production 
and maintain water pollution, ecological balance in agriculture. 
Activity Description:  
Promotion of climate smart agriculture practices like seed treatment with bio fertilizer, crop rotation, 
integrated nutrient management and integrated pest management practices will be promoted. 
Expected Outcome 
 Better yield due to balanced nutrition to the crops 
 Boost Soil fertility 
 
6) Promotion of kitchen gardening: 
Kitchen gardens can be established and maintained on a small patch of land with minimum technical 
inputs. These gardens provide the rural resource to the poor communities with a platform for innovations 
in supplemental food production as well as an opportunity to improve their livelihoods. Kitchen gardens are 
cost-effective, practical, and can easily meet the balanced dietary requirements of rural households as well 
as add substantially to the family income.   
Activity Description:  
Kitchen gardens will be promoted for ensuring availability of green and leafy vegetables for home 
consumption. The nutritional garden will have both perennial and seasonal vegetables and medicinal 
plants. 

--- Page 6 ---
 
 
Copyright © This concept note is a copyright of KKR Financial Advisors Pvt. Ltd. Any form of reproduction, dissemination, copying, disclosure, 
modification, distribution & or publication of this material is strictly prohibited, without written permission of the company. 
Expected Outcome 
 Nutritional Security 
 
7) Farm Mechanization 
Farm mechanization enhances production, productivity and profitability in agriculture by achieving 
timeliness in farm operations. Small and marginal farmers are not able to leverage the full potential of farm 
mechanization due to constraints like hilly topography, socio-economic conditions, high cost of transport 
etc.  
Activity Description:  
A custom hiring centre would be established in the village which would be stocked with different farm 
machineries like rotavator, zero till drill, drum seeder, multi-crop planter, power weeder, chaff cutter, 
tractor etc. The beneficiaries will also be trained to operate these machineries and use in their respective 
farm fields.   
Expected Outcome 
 Provides access of costly farm machinery to social and marginalized farmers especially female 
farmers  
 Reduces drudgery 
 Facilitates timeliness in farm operations and efficient use of inputs 
 
8) Promotion of micro irrigation 
Micro irrigation is a scientific method of irrigation carrying desired water and nutrients directly to the root 
zone of the plant on a drop by drop basis. Drip or trickle irrigation is a type of micro irrigation system that 
efficiently delivers water and nutrients directly to the plant’s root zones in the right amounts which 
subsequently help the plants to grow in an optimal manner. Hence, a financial assistance would be given to 
the selected farmers for the adoption of micro irrigation system which would not only enhance the 
production and productivity of crops but would also save water requirements. 
Expected Outcome 
 Water requirements will be saved by 40%. 
 
9) Establishment of Village Knowledge Center: 
Processes will be initiated to evolve, establish and nurture knowledge centre at the village level to ensure 
convergence, harnessing social capital and effective utilization of existing agricultural system. Knowledge 
center will act as a nodal point to interact with scientists and officials at one end and with progressive 
farmers at the other end. It would ensure a pool of local (progressive farmers) as well as scientific 
knowledge (State Agricultural Universities and Krishi Vigyan Kendra). One of the most important activity of 
knowledge center, will be, to ensure convergence of existing systems with crop production  and 
effective 
implementation of government schemes like MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment 
Guarantee Act), irrigation etc. It would also become node for regular interactions at the village level and 
support actions at the local level. These will be manned by the local villagers (youth farmers) with the help 
of social capital (retired officials, progressive farmers and locally available experts).  

--- Page 7 ---
 
 
Copyright © This concept note is a copyright of KKR Financial Advisors Pvt. Ltd. Any form of reproduction, dissemination, copying, disclosure, 
modification, distribution & or publication of this material is strictly prohibited, without written permission of the company. 
Expected Outcome 
 Linkages with various government departments for leveraging existing schemes. 
 
10) Newsletter Development: 
Regular dissemination of right information to the right persons in a right mode is key to any successful 
intervention. Farmers are not getting information on a regular basis and in a format which suits to their 
need. Indian extension system’s outreach is very scanty in villages and most of the extension posts are lying 
vacant in rural India. Few resourceful people get information and that too, not on a regular basis. Social and 
marginalized farmers especially Women farmers are left out of this process. Hence, to fill this gap and 
disseminate information, a quarterly newsletter named Kisan Samvad will be brought out in local languages 
which will be outcome of regular interaction between scientists, experts, writers and field activists. Regular 
workshops will be held to bring out this newsletter and it will be disseminated to these farmers. Emphasis 
will be given to identify actionable interventions in each month’s newsletter so as to bring desirable results. 
Expected Outcome 
 Dissemination of Credible Information to enhance crop yield 
 
4.Sustainability  
Formation of Farmer Interest Groups: 
Village Institutions are a very important part of rural development, they bring out the real sense of 
democracy and helps in the implementation of a project with increased village level participation and 
village representation. Farmers Interest Groups (FIG) is an independent and self-managed group of 15 to 20 
farmers in cluster farmlands with a shared goal and interest, who work together with their existing 
resources to achieve the desired goal in selected project villages. 
Community Resource Persons:  
In each village, a female and a male person will be developed for implementing project activities along with 
the project staff. During the project period, they would support project team in developing rapport with 
the community, facilitate implementation of village level activities and will assist in the implementation of 
various 
activities 
promoted 
by 
the 
project 
in 
the 
post 
project 
period.

--- Page 8 ---
 
 
5.Result based monitoring framework  
Result based monitoring and evaluation framework would be adopted to track and assess the performance of the project and in the end measure impact through 
continuous evaluation 
Objectives 
Activities 
Outputs 
Outcomes 
Impact 
1.To ensure secure livelihoods and 
prosperity of 500 farmers through 
inclusive, efficient, resilient, climate 
smart and scientifically recommended 
agricultural practices that would not 
only ensure their food and nutritional 
security,  at the same time safeguard 
the environment as well 
2.  To prevent distress migration from 
rural to urban areas due to lack of 
remunerative employment 
opportunities for a decent standard of 
living 
3.To reduce the drudgery, facilitate 
timeliness in farm operations and 
efficient use of inputs through farm 
mechanization 
4.To establish and nurture village level 
community-based institutions for 
sustaining the project gains in the post 
project period period 
 
1. Formation of Farmer interest 
groups 
2.Soil testing 
3.Adoption of organic methods 
4.Adoption of system of rice 
intensification 
5.Crop Diversification 
6.Integrated Crop Management 
7.Promotion of Kitchen 
Gardening 
8.Farm Mechanization 
9.Promotion of micro-irrigation 
10.Establishment of Village 
Knowledge Center 
11.Newsletter Development 
 
 
 
1.500 Families would 
be trained in improved 
agricultural practices. 
2.200% cropping 
intensity 
3.CRPs would be 
identified and trained 
                  
1. Increase in area under 
vegetable cultivation. 
2. Cultivation of High value 
Crops. 
3. Food and Nutritional 
security  
4. Trained farmers will 
cultivate crops throughout 
the year. 
5. Cash flow throughout the 
year 
Development of a Cadre of 
Community Workers 
 
1.Farmers income will be 
enhanced by 65%. 
2.Enhanced quality of life. 
3.Reduction in distress 
migration 
4.Reduction in agri inputs 
expenses 
5.Reduced emissions of 
greenhouse gases 
Sustainability of the project 
initiatives  
 
