--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 2 ---
 
Welcome to 
Ekatvabharat Foundation 
 
We Help DESERVING People Become More Efficient and Effective 
 
 
About Us 
Ekatvabharat Foundation incorporated as a Section 8 company in the year 2021 is striving 
hard with a mission to promote the well-being of humanity, eliminating extreme poverty and 
filling the opportunity gaps between rural and urban areas of India. Formed by the passionate 
and dedicated professional couple and co-managed by the experts in the industry, Ekatvabharat 
Foundation works on various social aspects like women and child empowerment, education, 
healthcare, social justice and human rights. 
The new age foundation deals with policy, technology, manpower and innovation to cater the 
need of employability, career, education, health & hygiene. As a technology driven foundation, 
we are focused on building collaborations to run various campaigns for the help of needy 
people around. We strive to spread the awareness and then take necessary steps to tackle the 
situation for providing the right solution. 
What makes us different? 
We work to develop entrepreneurship and income generation activities for the youth. Our other 
work includes upliftment programs, Career Orientation programs, relief, rehabilitation, rescue, 
and camps for education, employment, healthcare, etc. Ekatvabharat Foundation, since past 
years has worked towards strengthening organizational reputation, building community, 
advocacy and professional development. 
Our Mission 
Empower Children, Youth, and Women through programming and mobilization in the areas of 
Health, Environment, Sports development, education, and secured livelihood with strategic 
partners. 
Our Vision 
We are driven by the vision of empowering people with skills so that they can earn their 
livelihood. 
Our Values 
 We exercise Dignity & Respect 
 We are Professional and Responsible 
 We are Transparent and Accountable 
 We maintain Service Excellence and Confidentiality 

--- Page 3 ---
 
I am very happy to introduce “Ekatvabharat Foundation”, Indian non-profit based 
Organization. On behalf of Ekatvabharat Foundation, I welcome you all. With such aims and 
objectives, it was established having strong message for the various purpose, to do something 
for the growth of our Country in various segments for the development of India. Ekatvabharat 
Foundation with a motive for the development of poor children’s, Farmers, Women 
empowerment, Old age people, helpful persons, etc. in the segment of Education, Health, 
Agriculture, Sustainable Development, Social Justice, Human Rights etc. Ekatvabharat 
Foundation also works in the segment of Research & Development in the field of Agriculture, 
Health, Education, Medicinal Plants, Sanitation, Energy, Organic Farming, Sustainable 
development, Etc. for the Growth and Development of the Country. Ekatva baharat Foundation 
also works for the Development of the youth to make them on the right path and also aware the 
peoples with the help of Awareness Program, Motivational Events, Etc. Ekatva Bharat 
Foundation works day and night to reach out to millions of such lonely and so called unwanted 
people of our society backing them and giving them strength to be self-reliant and fight for their 
well-deserved rights. Right to Education and Right to Health are some of the basic rights which 
every individual of this world should be provided with, irrespective of their social status. Ekatva 
Bharat Foundation leaves no stone unturned in ensuring that every individual who has been 
deprived of these for some reason, get the chance to avail these rights. At the same time our aim 
is not just teaching people but to empower them with the abilities to have access to all the basic 
necessities of life enabling them to earn respect and dignity for themselves and their future 
generation. 
Founders Message 
 
As the Chairman of Ekatva Bharat Foundation I strongly believe that it’s our duty and 
responsibility to give back to the society in which we live, in return of the many things we 
avail from it in our day-to day lives. EkatvaBharat Foundation as an organization stems 
from this root belief. Me and my team’s quest to serve the destitute gives us the strength to 
work with full dedication, sincerity and honesty. We dream to see a brighter India with this 
little initiative of ours and know that our dreams will bear fruit soon as we are not alone. 
The backbone of EkavaBaharat Foundation is its Team, Sponsors, Volunteers and all 
supporters and well-wishers who are helping EkatvaBharat Foundation in many different 
ways. We are very grateful for the support that we get from many individual people that 

--- Page 4 ---
 
make our work possible.We always welcome support offered in any way, if you are youths, 
please feel free to visit us and join our activities at any time. 
   Best Wishes & Regards 
   
   Kranti Naikwadi - Ilake 
   
 (Founder) 
EkatvaBharat Foundation 
 
 
Ekatvabharat foundation emphasis on 
Education,Health,Livelihood,Environment,agriculture 
In,India 
 
Education 
Every child deserves the right to 
good food & education. 
405 million school children  
That’s the number of school children that may drop out worldwide (3rd year of pandemic). They also lost 2 
trillion hours of learning in a classroom environment.  
Stats in India 
India’s lockdown in 2020 impacted 247 million children enrolled in 1.5 million schools.  

--- Page 5 ---
 
Children have to get back to school to ensure they get their basics of schooling. Basic reading and numeracy 
skills serve as building blocks of the future.  
Let’s bring them back to school  
To move them a step towards learning foundational skills, The Ekatvabharat Foundation feeds them nutritious 
meals that they look forward to every single day.  
By bringing them to school everyday, you benefit them in the following ways: 
Socialization – they learn how to make friends & socialise with others 
Physical well being – they become healthier by eating nutritional food 
Cognitive growth – helps in processes of thinking & reasoning 
Your support can 
 
Bring 1.8 million and many more children to school to continue their education 
 
Bring children closer to their dreams by emphasizing on the importance of studies 
 
Make more memories of having a school life with friends and teachers 
 
Give access to nutritious midday meals on a daily basis, through the academic year 
 
Instil confidence in children that they can become independent in their future 
 
Make them regular to school so that they can learn something new every day 
 
Health 
Ekatvabharat Foundation work to improve the access to quality healthcare services for the poor and marginalised 
communities. By identifying the root causes of healthcare challenges, we work at the individual, community, and 
systemic levels to develop innovative solutions and help implement quality healthcare services. The ambit of our work 
includes improving of maternal and reproductive health, child health and nutrition, and early identification and 
treatment of communicable diseases 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Livelihood 

--- Page 6 ---
 
Ekatvabharat foundation works with the women engaged in smallholder agriculture, small businesses or employed as 
farm or non-farm labour. Implementing a range of innovative initiatives, we help women build secure and resilient 
livelihoods and climb out of poverty permanently. The key approaches adopted in livelihood sector initiatives include 
capability enhancement, asset building, collectivization, inclusive value chain development and engagement of men and 
other influential actors. 
 
 
 
 
For Donations  
Ekatvabharat Foundation 
Kotak Bank  
Account no: 7246196719 
IFSC: KKBK0001758 
 
Add 
about  
Education 
Women empowerment 
Agriculture 
Environment 
Cultural  
Animal Aid  
Health 
 
Photos 
