--- Slide 1 ---
www.ekatvabharat.org
9272799605
--- Slide 2 ---
About Us
Ekatvabharat Foundation incorporated as a Section 8 company in the year 2021 is striving hard with a mission to promote the well-being of humanity, eliminating extreme poverty and filling the opportunity gaps between rural and urban areas of India. Formed by the passionate and dedicated professional couple and co-managed by the experts in the industry, Ekatvabharat Foundation works on various social aspects like women and child empowerment, education, healthcare, social justice and human rights.
The new age foundation deals with policy, technology, manpower and innovation to cater the need of employability, career, education, health & hygiene. As a technology driven foundation, we are focused on building collaborations to run various campaigns for the help of needy people around. We strive to spread the awareness and then take necessary steps to tackle the situation for providing the right solution.

--- Slide 3 ---
 We work to develop entrepreneurship and income generation activities for the youth. Our other work includes up liftment programs,Career Orientation programs,relief,rehabilitation, rescue, and camps for education,employment, healthcare, etc. Ekatvabharat Foundation, since past years has worked towards strengthening organizational reputation, building community, advocacy and professional development.

Empower Children, Youth, and Women through programming and mobilization in the areas of Health, Environment, Sports development, education, and secured livelihood with strategic partners.
We are driven by the vision of empowering people with skills so that they can earn their livelihood.
What makes us different ?
Our Mission
Our Vision
--- Slide 4 ---
Ekatva Bharat Certificates
Section 8 Company  
12 A 
80 G 
NITI AAYOG
PAN
TAN
ISO
Udyam
E Anudan
CSR 1
--- Slide 5 ---
Our CSR Partnerships
Yardi Software Pvt Ltd –    Skilling & Women empowerment
			4 Batches Completed  PMC Area


Light House Communities – Skilling Hospitality Courses PMC & PCMC Area
                                                    Café Management
                                                    Hotel  Management 
			    Employment & Entrepreneurship
			    2 Batches  Running

Dagdushet Halwai Trust  - Skilling hospitality and temple
                                                management courses 


GOYN (PMC & PCMC) – Mobilization, Promotion & Awareness


--- Slide 6 ---
In collaboration with Yardi Software Company, Ekatvabharat Foundation is providing skill development training in the hospitality sector for 100 students in 2024-2025.

The initiative focuses on practical training in hotel management, café operations, and food services to ensure employability and self-sufficiency.

This partnership aims to uplift underprivileged youth by equipping them with industry-relevant skills for a sustainable future.

4 Batches Completed 
Yardi  Software  Pvt Ltd CSR Partnership for Hospitality 

Training (2024-2025)
--- Slide 7 ---
GOYN CSR Partnership for Hospitality  Training (2024-2025)

For Mobilization and support for PMC & PCMC area
Ekatvabharat Foundation is collaborating with GOYN to mobilize students for courses across Pune & PCMC.

The partnership supports course material development, student outreach, and promotional activities to maximize the impact of skill development programs.

This initiative ensures widespread awareness and accessibility of vocational training, helping more students enroll and benefit from industry-relevant education.
--- Slide 8 ---
Light House Communities

Lighthouse Communities CSR Partnership for Hospitality Training (2024-2025)

In collaboration with Lighthouse Communities, Ekatvabharat Foundation is providing skill development training in the hospitality sector for 250 students in 2024-2025.

The initiative includes two running batches, offering hands-on training in hotel management, café operations, and food services.

This partnership empowers underprivileged youth by equipping them with industry-relevant skills, increasing their employability and financial independence.
--- Slide 9 ---
Education
--- Slide 10 ---
--- Slide 11 ---
Women 
Empowermentc
--- Slide 12 ---
Women Empowerment
--- Slide 13 ---
Training for woman
--- Slide 14 ---
Workshops
--- Slide 15 ---
Child Development
--- Slide 16 ---
--- Slide 17 ---
Child Development
--- Slide 18 ---
project crafting smile for cancer kids
--- Slide 19 ---
--- Slide 20 ---
Donation Drive
Blood 
Donation camp
--- Slide 21 ---
Environment
vruksharopanc
--- Slide 22 ---
Vrikshropan 
with kids
--- Slide 23 ---
CSR Partnership Requirement  For EBF
Skill Development Sponsorships – Funding vocational training and workshops. PMC & PCMC Area

Technology & Infrastructure Support – Providing IT equipment and software for digital literacy programs. PMC & PCMC Area


Health & Nutrition Aid – Sponsoring nourishment and wellness programs for cancer-affected children. PMC & PCMC Area


Employee Engagement Programs –employees can participate in mentorship and awareness drives. PMC & PCMC Area

--- Slide 24 ---
Amplified Social Impact – Direct engagement with marginalized communities.


Enhanced CSR Branding – Stronger community presence and recognition


Measurable Results – Transparent reporting and impact assessment of funds utilized.


Long-Term Engagement – Creating self-sustaining communities rather than temporary relief.

Why To  Partner with EBF in 2025?
--- Slide 25 ---

Join Hands with Ekatvabharat Foundation to Create a Meaningful Impact!


www.ekatvabharat.org
9272799605
