--- Page 1 ---
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROJECT PROPOSAL 
ON 
Organizing  Awareness Camps on covid 19 immunity related issues 
 
PROPOSAL SUBMITTED  TO: 
 
Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, 
Room. No. 636, 'A', Wing, ShastriBhawan, 
Dr. Rajendra Prasad Road, 
New Delhi - 110001 (India) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PROPOSAL SUBMITTED BY: 
 
Ekatvabharat Foundation 
Address: A-430,Ideal park,Gokul nagar, katraj 
kondhwa road,pune 411046 
 
pune District, Maharashtra,  
Mobile:  9272799605 
E-mail: - kranti.5217@gmail.com  
 

--- Page 2 ---
 
 
INDEX 
 
Attested Documents to be attached along with the proposal. 
 
Sr. 
No. 
ITEMS 
Annexure 
1 
Details of Project 
 
2 
Registration certificate 
 
3 
Memorandum of Association & Constitution of the 
Organization 
 
4 
List of members of the Executive Committee 
 
5 
Audited statements & statement of Receipt and Payment 
for three years 
 
6 
Annual Report 
 
7 
A copy of PAN – NO 
 
8 
Copy of the 12-AA, 80-G 
 
9 
Copy of the FCRA 
 
10 
A copy of Bank Account Pass Book 
 
12 
Details of the Staff Employed 
 
13 
Planning Commission Registered No 
 
14 
District Map 
 
 
 

--- Page 3 ---
 
 
 
 
 
APPLICATION FORM 
FORMAT IN WHICH ORGANIZATION SEEKING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 
TO BE PLACED BEFORE THE GRANT – IN – AID COMMITTEE. 
 
1. 
Name of the organization with 
complete postal address with 
Telephone No Fax No and E-mail 
ID 
 
Ekatvabharat Foundation 
Address: A 430,ideal park,gokul 
nagar,katraj kondhwa road,pune 
411046 
 
pune District, Maharashtra,  
Mobile:  9272799605 
E-mail: - kranti.5217@gmail.com  
 
2. 
Whether registered under the 
Societies Registration Act, 1860 , or 
any other Act, (to be specified) and 
the date of registration (please 
enclose a copy of the Registration 
Certificate) 
 
Registered Under Society 
Registration Act clause 21 of 
1860 
 
Copy of Registration 
certificate is attached 
 
3. 
Name of the person and his/her 
designation, nominated/authorized 
to act on behalf of the organization 
 
Secretary Mras Kranti Pradeep Ilake 
Ekatvabharat Foundation 
4. 
Name of the Project President, his 
telephone number, fax number, 
 
Secretary Mrs Kranti Pradeep Ilake 

--- Page 4 ---
 
 
mobile number and  
E-mail ID 
Ekatvabharat Foundation  
92727299605, kranti.5217@gmail.com  
 
5. 
Financial assistance sought with 
break-up of cost estimates (item-
wise) 
 
Rupees sixteen lakhs  only sixety 
nine thousands four hundred 
only) 
(INR 1669400/-) 
Breakup annexed with the project 
details 
6. 
Time frame for completion of the 
project 
3 months 
7. 
If the project is to be undertaken by 
an individual, details of the 
organization to which he or she is 
affiliated 
Attached with the records 
8. 
Is it proposed to receive grant/funds 
from any other source for the same 
purpose or activity to which this 
application pertains? If so, details 
thereof 
Not yet received 
9. 
Additional information if any 
Attached with documents 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 5 ---
 
 
PROPOSAL DETAILS 
 
Background 
 
An immunization or vaccine-preventable disease is an infectious disease for which an 
effective preventive vaccine exists. If a person acquires a vaccine-preventable disease 
and dies from it, the death is considered a vaccine-preventable death. The most common 
and serious vaccine-preventable diseases tracked by the World Health Organization 
(WHO) are: diphtheria, Haemophilusinfluenzae serotype b infection, hepatitis B, 
measles, meningitis, mumps, pertussis, poliomyelitis, rubella, tetanus, tuberculosis, and 
yellow fever. The WHO reports licensed vaccines being available to prevent, or 
contribute to the prevention and control of, 25 vaccine-preventable infections. 
 
In 2012, the World Health Organization estimated that vaccination prevents 2.5 million 
deaths each year. With 100% immunization, and 100% efficacy of the vaccines, one out 
of seven deaths among young children could be prevented, mostly in developing 
countries, making this an important global health issue. Four diseases were responsible 
for 98% of vaccine-preventable deaths: measles, Haemophilusinfluenzae serotype b, 
pertussis, and neonatal tetanus. 
 
The Immunization Surveillance, Assessment and Monitoring program of the WHO 
monitors and assesses the safety and effectiveness of programs and vaccines at reducing 
illness and deaths from diseases that could be prevented by vaccines. 
Vaccine-preventable deaths are usually caused by a failure to obtain the vaccine in a 
timely manner. This may be due to financial constraints or to lack of access to the 
vaccine. A vaccine that is generally recommended may be medically inappropriate for a 
small number of people due to severe allergies or a damaged immune system. In 
addition, a vaccine against a given disease may not be recommended for general use in 
a given country, or may be recommended only to certain populations, such as young 
children or older adults. Every country makes its own immunization recommendations, 
based on the diseases that are common in its area and its healthcare priorities. If a 

--- Page 6 ---
 
 
vaccine-preventable disease is uncommon in a country, then residents of that country 
are unlikely to receive a vaccine against it. For example, residents of Canada and the 
United States do not routinely receive vaccines against yellow fever, which leaves them 
vulnerable to infection if travelling to areas where risk of yellow fever is highest 
(endemic or transitional regions). 
 
The Constitution of India recognizes it as a primary duty for every state to improve 
public health among their population, providing proper services. In line with this, the 
11th Plan (2007-2012) asserted the need to ensure provisioning of primary health 
services to the poorest. However, many health problems remain in India as well as in 
Tamil Nadu, where Bless implements its projects. 
 
As per the third National Family Health Survey 2005-2006 (NFHS 3), the 
infantmortality rate (IMR) and under-5 mortality rate (U5MR) in India were 
respectively 57 and 74 per thousand live births in these years. These figures had to be 
drastically reduced so that India could achieve the Millennium Development Goals, for 
which the deadline is 2015. Indeed, India set the objective to reach a 28‰ live births 
IMR and a 41‰ live births U5MR. However, as we can observe on the Worldbank 
Databank, IMR was still high (41‰ live births) last year, as well as the U5MR (53‰). 
The fulfilment of the goals will probably not be possible for 2015 and will doubtlessly 
take another several years. 
 
What’s more, as per the Worldbank survey, India is part of the 25 lower 
rankedcountries regarding immunization against DPT (diphtheria, pertussis and etanus) 
and counts 176 cases of tuberculosis per 100.000 people, which is 25 times more than in 
Italy or France4. Finally, life expectancy at birth stands at 66 years old against 83 in 
Italy and France. 
 
Justification 
 

--- Page 7 ---
 
 
Immunisation protects children (and adults) against harmful infections before they 
come into contact with them in the community. 
 
Immunisation uses the body’s natural defence mechanism - the immune response - to 
build resistance to specific infections. Nine diseases can be prevented by routine 
childhood immunisation - diphtheria, tetanus, whooping cough, poliomyelitis (polio), 
measles, mumps, rubella, Haemophilusinfluenzae type b (Hib) and hepatitis B. All of 
these diseases can cause serious complications and sometimes death. 
 
Immunisation is given as an injection or, in the case of polio vaccine, taken as drops by 
mouth. Immunisation helps children stay healthy by preventing serious infections. 
 
Technically ‘vaccination’ is the term used forgiving a vaccine - that is, actually getting 
the injection or swallowing the drops. ‘Immunisation’is the term used for the process of 
both getting the vaccine and becoming immune to the disease as a result of the vaccine. 
Most people use the terms ‘vaccination’ and ‘immunisation’interchangeably but their 
meanings are not exactly the same because immunity follows vaccination in most, but 
not all, cases. For the purposes of this book, we have always used the term 
‘immunisation’ because this is the expression most commonly used in the community. 
 
All forms of immunisation work in the same way. When someone is injected with, or 
swallows, a vaccine, their body produces an immune response in the same way it would 
following exposure to a disease but without the person getting the disease. If the person 
comes in contact with the disease in the future, the body is able to make an immune 
response fast enough to prevent the person getting sick. 
 
There are two reasons for immunising everyone in Australia:  
 
● Immunisation is the safest and most effective way of giving protection against the 
disease. After immunisation, your child is far less likely to catch the disease if there 

--- Page 8 ---
 
 
are cases in the community. The benefit of protection against the disease far 
outweighs the very small risks of immunisation.  
 
● If enough people in the community are immunised, the infection can no longer be 
spread from person to person and the disease dies out altogether. This is how 
smallpox was eliminated from the world, and polio has disappeared from many 
countries. 
 
Vaccines — which protect against disease by inducing immunity — are widely and 
routinely administered around the world based on the common-sense principle that it is 
better to keep people from falling ill than to treat them once they are ill. Suffering, 
disability, and death are avoided. Immunization averted about two million deaths in 
2002. In addition, contagion is reduced, strain on health-care systems is eased, and 
money is frequently saved that can be used for other health services. 
 
Immunization is a proven tool for controlling and even eradicating disease. An 
immunization campaign carried out by the World Health Organization (WHO) from 
1967 to 1977 eradicated the natural occurrence of smallpox. When the programme 
began, the disease still threatened 60% of the world's population and killed every fourth 
victim. Eradication of poliomyelitis is within reach. Since the launch by WHO and its 
partners of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative in 1988, infections have fallen by 
99%, and some five million people have escaped paralysis. Between 1999 and 2003, 
measles deaths dropped worldwide by almost 40%, and some regions have set a target 
of eliminating the disease. Maternal and neonatal tetanus will soon be eliminated in 14 
of 57 high-risk countries. 
 
New vaccines also have been introduced with significant results, including the first 
vaccine to help prevent liver cancer, hepatitis B vaccine, which is now routinely given 
to infants in 77% of WHO's Member States. Rapid progress in the development of new 
vaccines means protection will be available in the near future against a wider range of 
serious infectious diseases. 

--- Page 9 ---
 
 
 
Target 
 
The project proposes to organize ten health camps to be organised in the pune District 
of Maharashtra for the socially and economically vulnerable people, those who are 
more concerned by the health problems.  
 
It would mostly target the Dalits and Tribal communities, which constitute a scheduled 
population that cannot access to medical assistance because of a lack of financial 
means, awareness an primary healthcare services. 
 
Objectives 
 
● To create awareness on immunization diseases and the need of timely 
immunization. 
● To avoid people from contracting diseases. 
● To give knowledge on what they should do to reduce their chances of warding off 
illnesses.  
● To raise health awareness among the poorest. 
● To work towards improving the health indicators in pune District significantly. 
 
Preparations& Methodology  
 
For each camp, the first step will be to confirm presence of volunteer doctors to attend 
to the camps. Then will be the communication phase in order to ensure the efficiency of 
the camps. That is why we will, in different ways, communicate the event to the 
inhabitants of the targeted villages. The information will be relayed during the week 
before the camp thanks to the following means: 
 

--- Page 10 ---
 
 
● The local channels will inform people about the event, giving them the place and 
date of the camp. 
● Handbills will be distributed giving information about the event in the target 
villages. 
● An auto-rickshaw will drive on the roads and in the villages with a loudspeaker on 
the day before the camp, in order to remind people 
● Posters and displays will be prepared for use during the camps. 
● A door to door survey will be conducted to get all the family details so that 
distribution of the materials won’t be difficult and there won’t be any duplication.  
● Primary schools would be contacted to ensure children’s participation. 
● Tents and necessary furniture arrangements would be planned to finalize. 
 
Ten camps at identified villages in the district would be organized over a period of three 
months. Proper documentation and beneficiary records would be compiled to analyse 
the project indicators post implementation. 
 
Benefits / Outcomes 
 
● Increased health indicators.  
● People sensitized to immunization diseases. 
● Community member participation in camps. 
● Peer educators trained. 
● Children to benefit with routine immunizations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 11 ---
 
 
Budget 
 
 
Calculation 
Amount (INR) 
A. Communication 
1. Handbills 
300000 
300000 
2. Local channel banners 
300000 
300000 
3. Auto rickshaw with loud speakers 
280000 
280000 
4. Banners for the camps 
250 * 10 Nos. 
2500 
5. Awareness displays 
300000 
300000 
B. Venue 
1. Tent  
3500 * 10 
35000 
2. Necessary furniture 
4500 * 10 
45000 
3. Water arrangements 
300 * 10 
3000 
C. Basic amenities  
1. Food for the doctors / resource experts – 
3  
480 * 3 * 10 
14400 
2. Stationery 
2000 
2000 
3. Audio-visual aids (On rent) 
2500 * 10 
25000 
4. TA & DA for the doctors / resource 
experts – 3 
2000 * 3 * 10 
60000 
5. Resource kits for the visitors 
500 * 500 
250000 
D. Project Management 
1. Salary to a full time dedicated staff 
8000 * 3 
24000 
2. Communication 
3000 * 3 
9000 

--- Page 12 ---
 
 
3. Travel 
4000 * 3 
12000 
4. Contingency &Misc 
2500 * 3 
7500 
 
 
 
Total 
1669400/- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

--- Page 13 ---
 
 
To, 
 
The Secretary 
Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, 
Room. No. 636, 'A', Wing, ShastriBhawan, 
Dr. Rajendra Prasad Road, 
New Delhi - 110001 (India) 
 
 
 
Subject: Submission of Project Proposal 
 
Sir, 
 
Greetings from  Ekatvabharat Foundation 
 
Please find attached our proposal towards ‘ORGANISING TEN AWARENESS CAMPS ON 
IMMUNISATION DISEASES IN VILLAGES OF pune DISTRICT OF Maharashtra’. The 
budget requested for the project is Rs. 1669400/- (Rupees sixteen lakhs sixty nine thousands four 
Hundred only). 
 
All necessary documents and enclosures are also being attached with the Application. We shall be 
really grateful if you could consider this important project in the interest of the community of our 
region. 
 
 
 
Mrs Kranti Pradeep Ilake 
 
Ekatvabharat Foundation 
 
 
